" "What is my mission?"
"Destroy all of them."
"That's it? Do we have a plan? Maps? Any indication of the enemy's numbers, position or weaknesses?"
What do I look like, a robotics expert? Just shoot them, you'll figure it out." " - Took from retrovania-vgjunk.blogspot.com.es

In august 1990 Toaplan released Out Zone, a run and gun with vertical scroll where the player took control of a soldier, who has to fight countless aliens and killing their chief 
before progressing to the next level. It has a total of seven increasingly difficult levels. It also included a multiplayer feature where the players must coordinate pretty 
well for doing what one man was supposed to do.

There are four different power-ups in the game:
 - Weapons (red fireballs, three-way shot, flamethrower and a mace)
 - Speed increase
 - Bombs: It has a limit of 10, after that it will give a 5000 point bonus
 - Energy: the most important of the three; if you run out of energy during a mision you will lose a life.

Out Zone's genre was nothing new. It was a booming genre; videogames' companies were trying to get the lead, like Williams with his "Smash TV" game or SNK Playmore's "Ikari Warriors", 
released the same year as Out Zone. But it was a success, it brought the system as it's maximum potential. It has a perfect score of five over five 
in http://www.arcade-museum.com/

The game was run on a upright cabinet. It needed a motorola 68000 microprocessor at 10MHz or a Zilog Z80 at 3.5 MHz. The sound was amplified Mono of one channel, using a 
Yamaha YM3812 as a sound chip. The display was with a 320x240 rastered resolution, using 2048's colors palette refreshing at 55.16Hz.
Video System:

"The games has 4 layers, each tile (8x8 pixel graphic unit) in each layer has one of 15 possible priority values or 0 for "off". The system has up to 256 sprites which can be any size from 
8x8 pixels to 128x128 pixels specified in a separate size table. Each sprite has a priority value from 1 to 15 which is shared with the layers." - Took from http://allyourbase.toaplan.org/hardware/index.html#truxton

Out Zone had five different versions released for the arcades, each new version uses different enemies in some stages and has extra bonuses compared to the old version. 
The music sequences are also in different orders between the sets. It was never ported to a home console.


TRIVIA
everal characters from other Toaplan games make cameo appearances as powerups or bonuses :
• Six plane squadron from "Flying Shark" fly on the screen shooting enemies in an upside down V shape pattern.
• The "Truxton" ship follows the player helping out.
• ZIG-01 from "Zero Wing" flies on the screen dragging a bunch of '5000' points bonuses.
• Pipiru, Toaplan's mascot from "Zero Wing" can be summoned in level 1 from shooting a hole in a rock. It is vulnerable to all weapons, but it will bring a significant score bonus if safely taken to the level's boss.
